README.md, before:

# System Stress Test Tool

A high-performance system stress testing tool written in Go, designed for testing CPU, memory, filesystem I/O, and raw disk performance.

## Features

* CPU load testing with adjustable intensity (High, Low, Default)
* Memory usage stress test with fine-grained percentage control
* Filesystem performance test on specified mount points
* Raw disk read/write test with configurable block size, test size, offset, and mode
* Configurable test durations and resource usage
* Sequential and random modes for I/O testing
* Detailed performance statistics, including operation counts
* Debug mode for detailed step logging
* System resource information display

## Installation

```
git clone https://github.com/yourname/StressLinux.git
cd StressLinux
go build -o stress
```

[Optional] If you don't set -d parameter and want to check debug message.
```
echo "{\"debug\": true}" > config.json
```

## Usage

```
./stress [options]
```

## Available Options

| Flag | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `-cpu` | Enable CPU stress testing |
| `-numa` | NUMA node to stress (e.g., 0 or 1; default -1 means all nodes) |
| `-cpu-cores` | Number of CPU cores to stress (0 means all cores, default: 0) |
| `-cpu-load` | CPU load level: High (2), Low (1), or Default (0) |
| `-memory` | Memory testing percentage (0.1-9.9 for 1%-99% of total memory, e.g., 1.5 for 15%, default: 0) |
| `-l` | Comma-separated mount points to test (e.g., /mnt/disk1,/mnt/disk2) |
| `-disk` | Raw disk devices to test (e.g., /dev/sdb, /dev/nvme0n1) |
| `-diskoffset` | Start offset from the beginning of the raw device (e.g., 1G, 100M, supports K, M, G units, default: 1G) |
| `-mode` | Filesystem test mode: sequential, random, or both (default: both) |
| `-size` | File size for mount point testing (e.g., 10M, 1G, supports K, M, G units, default: 10M) |
| `-block` | Comma-separated block sizes for disk operations (e.g., 4K,1M, supports K, M, G units, default: 4K) |
| `-duration` | Total duration of the test (e.g., 30s, 5m, 1h, default: 10m) |
| `-d` | Enable debug mode |
| `-h` | Show help |
| `-list` or `-print` | Show system resource information |
| `-scan` | Create auto-testConfig in config.json |


**Note:** At least one of `-cpu`, `-memory`, `-l`, or `-disk` must be specified.

## Example Usages

Check system resource information
```
./stress -list
```

Scan System Resource to create test config.json.(Optional)
```
./stress -scan
```

Config.json contents by auto-configuration
Example:
```
{
    "debug": false,
    "CPU": true,
    "Cores": 4,
    "Load": "Default",
    "Memory": true,
    "MEMPercent": 9.3,
    "Mountpoint": "/mnt, /home/mainstorage",
    "RAWDisk": "",
    "Size": "10M",
    "Offset": "1G",
    "Block": "4K",
    "Mode": "both"
}
```

Test CPU with high load and memory 25%:
```
./stress -cpu -cpu-load High -memory 2.5 -duration 5m
```
or
```
./stress -cpu -cpu-load 2 -memory 2.5 -duration 5m
```

Test 2 CPU cores in Numa Node 1 and memory 20%:
```
./stress -cpu -cpu-cores 2 -numa 1 -memory 2 -duration 5m

```
### RAW Disk(s) stress
Test raw disk with custom block size and offset:
```
./stress -disk /dev/nvme0n1,/dev/nvme1n1 -block 4K -size 200M -diskoffset 1G
```

### Filesystem(s) stress
Filesystem I/O test on mount points with sequential mode:
```
./stress -l /mnt/ssd1,/mnt/ssd2 -size 100M -block 1M,4K -mode sequential
```

Filesystem I/O test on mount points with random mode:
```
./stress -l /mnt/ssd1,/mnt/ssd2 -size 100M -block 4K,512K -mode random
```

Filesystem I/O test on mount points with sequential and random mode:
```
./stress -l /mnt/ssd1 -size 100M -block 4K -mode both
```

Enable debug logs:
```
./stress -cpu -d
```

## License

MIT License. See LICENSE for details.

## Contributing

Feel free to fork and submit pull requests. Suggestions and improvements are welcome!

Commit message:

Remove rawdisk on both mode due to error will be happen easily, and modify systeminfo to show correct mountpoint or rawdisk

README.md, after:

# System Stress Test Tool

A high-performance system stress testing tool written in Go, designed for testing CPU, memory, filesystem I/O, and raw disk performance.

## Features

* CPU load testing with adjustable intensity (High, Low, Default)
* Memory usage stress test with fine-grained percentage control
* Filesystem performance test on specified mount points
* Raw disk read/write test with configurable block size, test size, offset, and mode
* Configurable test durations and resource usage
* Sequential and random modes for I/O testing
* Detailed performance statistics, including operation counts
* Debug mode for detailed step logging
* System resource information display

## Installation

```
git clone https://github.com/yourname/StressLinux.git
cd StressLinux
go build -o stress
```

[Optional] If you don't set -d parameter and want to check debug message.
```
echo "{\"debug\": true}" > config.json
```

## Usage

```
./stress [options]
```

## Available Options

| Flag | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `-cpu` | Enable CPU stress testing |
| `-numa` | NUMA node to stress (e.g., 0 or 1; default -1 means all nodes) |
| `-cpu-cores` | Number of CPU cores to stress (0 means all cores, default: 0) |
| `-cpu-load` | CPU load level: High (2), Low (1), or Default (0) |
| `-memory` | Memory testing percentage (0.1-9.9 for 1%-99% of total memory, e.g., 1.5 for 15%, default: 0) |
| `-l` | Comma-separated mount points to test (e.g., /mnt/disk1,/mnt/disk2) |
| `-disk` | Raw disk devices to test (e.g., /dev/sdb, /dev/nvme0n1) |
| `-diskoffset` | Start offset from the beginning of the raw device (e.g., 1G, 100M, supports K, M, G units, default: 1G) |
| `-mode` | Filesystem test mode: sequential, random, or both (default: both) |
| `-size` | File size for mount point testing (e.g., 10M, 1G, supports K, M, G units, default: 10M) |
| `-block` | Comma-separated block sizes for disk operations (e.g., 4K,1M, supports K, M, G units, default: 4K) |
| `-duration` | Total duration of the test (e.g., 30s, 5m, 1h, default: 10m) |
| `-d` | Enable debug mode |
| `-h` | Show help |
| `-list` or `-print` | Show system resource information |
| `-scan` | Create auto-testConfig in config.json |


**Note:** At least one of `-cpu`, `-memory`, `-l`, or `-disk` must be specified.

## Example Usages

Check system resource information
```
./stress -list
```

Scan System Resource to create test config.json.(Optional)
```
./stress -scan
```

Config.json contents by auto-configuration
Example:
```
{
    "debug": false,
    "CPU": true,
    "Cores": 4,
    "Load": "Default",
    "Memory": true,
    "MEMPercent": 9.3,
    "Mountpoint": "/mnt, /home/mainstorage",
    "RAWDisk": "",
    "Size": "10M",
    "Offset": "1G",
    "Block": "4K",
    "Mode": "both"
}
```

Test CPU with high load and memory 25%:
```
./stress -cpu -cpu-load High -memory 2.5 -duration 5m
```
or
```
./stress -cpu -cpu-load 2 -memory 2.5 -duration 5m
```

Test 2 CPU cores in Numa Node 1 and memory 20%:
```
./stress -cpu -cpu-cores 2 -numa 1 -memory 2 -duration 5m

```
### RAW Disk(s) stress
Test raw disk with custom block size and offset:
```
./stress -disk /dev/nvme0n1,/dev/nvme1n1 -block 4K -size 200M -diskoffset 1G
```

- NOTICE!! The RAWDisk does not support both mode, if you want to stress mountpoint and rawdisk at the same time,
  You must assign parameter mode as sequential or random not both.
  ex: ./stress -disk /dev/sdb -l /mnt -size 100M -mode both ==> This is wrong mode selection.
  The correct is: 
  ./stress -disk /dev/sdb -l /mnt -size 100M -mode sequential or random

### Filesystem(s) stress
Filesystem I/O test on mount points with sequential mode:
```
./stress -l /mnt/ssd1,/mnt/ssd2 -size 100M -block 1M,4K -mode sequential
```

Filesystem I/O test on mount points with random mode:
```
./stress -l /mnt/ssd1,/mnt/ssd2 -size 100M -block 4K,512K -mode random
```

Filesystem I/O test on mount points with sequential and random mode:
```
./stress -l /mnt/ssd1 -size 100M -block 4K -mode both
```

Enable debug logs:
```
./stress -cpu -d
```

## License

MIT License. See LICENSE for details.

## Contributing

Feel free to fork and submit pull requests. Suggestions and improvements are welcome!
